feat: redirect trailing slashes on on-demand rendered pages (#12994)
withastro/astro: .changeset/blue-spies-shave.md

---
'astro': minor
---

Redirects trailing slashes for on-demand pages

> When the `trailingSlash` option is set to `always` or `never`, on-demand rendered pages will now redirect to the correct URL when the trailing slash is incorrect. This was previously the case for static pages, but now works for on-demand pages as well. It will also redirect when there are multiple trailing slashes for all trailing slash settings. For GET requests, the redirect will be a 301 (permanent) redirect, and for all other request methods, it will be a 308 (permanent, and preserve the request method) redirect.

Reviewer: > It will also redirect when there are multiple trailing slashes for all trailing slash settings. 

I'm not *entirely* sure what this means?

Also, just checking that maybe the more technical details about the http status codes should also be in the reference docs themselves?

Author: It'll redirect `/about////` to `/about` or `/about/`

Reviewer: Gotcha!
```suggestion
When the `trailingSlash` option is set to `always` or `never`, on-demand rendered pages will now redirect to the correct URL when the trailing slash doesn't match the configuration option. This was previously the case for static pages, but now works for on-demand pages as well.

Now, it doesn't matter whether your visitor navigates to `/about/`, `/about`, or even `/about///`. In production, they'll always end up on the correct page. For GET requests, the redirect will be a 301 (permanent) redirect, and for all other request methods, it will be a 308 (permanent, and preserve the request method) redirect.

In development, you'll see a helpful 404 page to alert you of a trailing slash mismatch so you can troubleshoot routes.
```
Maybe somethign like this?

- being more fun about it?
- also mentioning what happens in dev because people might not see the patch note, and might focus on reading this one?
